MESSAGE user ```This new understanding of the multifaceted roles of the cranial nerves, and particularly their connection with the state of social engagement, enabled me to consistently help more people with an even wider range of health issues. All I had to do was to determine whether these five cranial nerves functioned well and, if not, to use a technique to get them to function better. This made it possible for me to achieve far greater success in my practice and to treat intransigent conditions such as migraine headaches, depression, fibromyalgia, COPD, post-traumatic stress, forward head posture, and neck and shoulder problems, among others. This book is an introduction to the theory and practice of Polyvagal healing. After describing basic neurological structures, I will list some of the physical, psychological, and social issues caused by dysfunctions of those five cranial nerves. According to the Polyvagal Theory, the autonomic nervous system has two other functions in addition to those of the ventral branch of the vagus nerve: the activity of the dorsal branch of the vagus nerve, and sympathetic activity from the spinal chain. This multiple (poly-) nature of the vagus nerve gives the theory its name. The differences between the functions of the ventral and dorsal branches of the vagus nerve have profound implications for physical and behavioral health and healing. Throughout the book, I propose a new approach to healing that includes self-help exercises and hands-on therapeutic techniques that are simple to learn and easy to use. It is my hope that this knowledge will continue to spread and enable many more people to help themselves and others. RESTORING SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT I have written this book to make the benefits of restoring vagal function available to a broad range of people, even if they have no prior experience with craniosacral or other forms of hands-on therapy. Readers can acquire a unique set of easy-to-learn and easy-to-do self-help exercises and hands-on techniques that should enable them to improve the function of these five nerves in themselves and others. I used the principles behind Alain Gehin's work to develop these techniques. The exercises and techniques restore flexibility to the functioning of the autonomic nervous system. They can help eliminate the general adverse conditions of chronic stress, which arises from the overstimulation of the spinal sympathetic chain, and depressive behavior and shut-down, which arise from activity in the dorsal vagal circuit. The exercises are noninvasive and do not involve medicine or surgery.``` \nThe content between backticks is a subsection of a book-chapter. Write fewer than 11 words to concisely describe this passage, without prefix or any further explanation.
MESSAGE assistant Restoring Autonomic Balance Through Cranial Nerve Techniques
